governance: Add GOVERNANCE.md document (#7)
Diamond-Bluff/Diamond-Bluff: GOVERNANCE.md

# Diamond Bluff

For an idea of what the goals of the Diamond Bluff project are, please see the
[high level overview document](README.md).

## Governance

### Governance Goals

The goal of governance for the Diamond Bluff project is to maintain and
emphasize a technical meritocracy of contributors. Those who contribute the
most and the best technical solutions, while supporting all contirbutors, have
the most influence in the technical direction of the project. At the same
time, a [Board of Directors](#Board of Directors) is established with it's
own set of responsibilities, to help manage the Diamond Bluff project.

## Membership

The Diamond Bluff project is composed of Platinum, Silver, and Participating
Academic members. All Platinum and Silver members must be current corporate
members of the hosting foundation (e.g. Linux Foundation or Open Infrastructure
Foundation) at any level to participate in the Diamond Bluff project.

Platinum, Silver and Participating Academic Members shall be entitled to:

> * Participate in the Diamond Bluff Project memtings, initiatives, events and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Participate in the Diamond Bluff Project meetings, initiatives, events and
```

  any other activities.
* Identify their company or academic institution as a member or participant in
  the Diamond Bluff project.
* Platinum members shall be entitled to appoint a representative to the
  Board of Directors of the Diamond Bluff project, as well as any future
  committees established by the Board of Directors.

## Structure

At a high level, the Diamond Bluff project is governed by two main bodies which
work together to achieve the project's goals:

* A Board of Directors
* A Technical Steering Committee

### Board of Directors

The Diamond Bluff project Board of Directors shall be composed as follows:

* One representative from each Platinum member.
* One Silver member representative elected annually by the Silver members for

>   every 5 Silver members, with at least one representative, and no more than 3.

Reviewer 2: ... every 5 or fraction thereof

In other words, when we get 6 silver members, we'll elect 2 silver reps

The Board of Directors shall have the following responsibilities:

* Approve a budget directing the use of funds raised from all sources of
  revenue.
* Elect a Chair of the Diamond Bluff project to preside over meetings,
  authorize expenditures approved by the budget, and manage any day-to-day
  operations, and vote on decisions or matters before the Board of Directors.

The Board of Directors shall::

* Demonstrate plans and the means to coordinate with the open source project’s
  developer community, including on topics such as branding, logos, and other
  collateral that will represent the community.
* Engage in a professional manner consistent with maintaining a cohesive
  community, while also maintaining the goodwill and esteem of the project's
  foundation, in the open source software community.
  community.
* Respect the rights of all trademark owners, including any branding and usage
  guidelines.
* Engage the project's foundation for all press and analyst relations activities.

> * Upon request, provide information regarding project participation, including

Reviewer 2: Not sure why this needs to be in there?  Won't the foundation have more info about events than we will?

Author: Superficial, yes. But a deeper analysis, likely not as much as the maintainers and participants.

  information regarding attendance at project-sponsored events, to the
  project's foundation.
* Engage the project's foundation for any Diamond Bluff project websites, and
  operate under such rules and procedures as may from time to time be approved
  by the Diamond Bluff Board of Directors and confirmed by the project's

>   foundation.

Reviewer 2: Add:

For any of the above responsibilities, the Board may delegate their powers to one
or more parties as appropriate and necessary, under terms set by the Board.

> ### Technical Steering Committee

Reviewer 2: Alternate version:

### Technical Steering Committee

Members of the Diamond Bluff Technical Steering Committee (TSC) decide technical 
matters that affect the entire project, administer joint project-wide 
technical resources, and act as a final arbiter of technical matters that are 
not decided inside individual subprojects.

#### TSC Membership

All TSC members must be currently contributing engineers, documentation writers,
test platform adminstrators, specification editors, or other direct technical 
contributors to one or more subprojects.

During the first year of of the project, The TSC shall be composed as follows:

* One appointed representative from each Platinum member
* One maintainer from each Diamond Bluff sub-project, selected by the Board

Starting one year after the launch of the Diamond Bluff governance, the TSC 
composition will become:

* Two maintainers from each Diamond Bluff sub-project
* Two technical contributors appointed by the Board

Membership in the TSC will gradually transition to a model of elected subproject
technical leadership, starting in the second year of the project. Details for 
this transition will be decided by the Board.

Should any TSC member cease regular technical contributions, their membership
will terminate at the next regular annual selection date. If a TSC member
violates the Code of Conduct, they may be removed from the TSC by the Code
of Conduct Committee.

#### TSC Responsibilities

The responsibilities of the Diamond Bluff Technical Steering Committee are
as follows:

* Coordinating the technical direction of the Diamond Bluff Project
* Nominating and reviewing new sub-projects for creation under the Diamond Bluff 
  organization after final approval by the Board.
* Confirming selected maintainers in the sub-projects, and ensuring they have the
  technical support necessary to be successful in their role as a maintainer.
* Communicating with external and industry organizations concering Diamond
  Bluff technical matters.
* Appointing represenatives to work with other open source or open standards
  communities.
* Voting on technical matters relating to any common code base or specifications
  affecting all sub-projects.
* Adminstering common technical resources, such as repository hosting and the 
  testing infrastructure.
* Acting as "court of final appeal" for technical matters which are not resolved
  through normal decision mechanisms within the individual subprojects.
* Coordinating response to security issues and ensuring that all subprojects
  are reasonably secure.
  
For any of the above responsibilities, the TSC may delegate their powers to one
or more parties as appropriate and necessary, under terms set by the TSC.

#### TSC Meetings

The TSC shall hold one or more public meetings each month.  All contributors
to, or sponsors of, Diamond Bluff shall be entitled to attend these meetings. 
Public meetings will have a public agenda to which members of the community may
reasonably add items.

The TSC may also have private meetings from time to time, particularly when
discussing security response or settling escalated disputes. All TSC members
will be included in private meetings.

Reviewer 2: This version does several things:  

1. Ensures that the TSC is made up of people actually working on the subprojects
2. Adds the expectation that the TSC will transition to a model of technical promotion from below instead of appointment by the Board, but leaves that exact model flexible.
3. Adds a more complete set of TSC responsibilities.

Author: I like this version, thanks for the help!

The Diamond Bluff Technical Steering Committee shall be composed as follows:

* One appointed representative from each Platinum member
* A maintainer from each Diamond Bluff sub-project

In addition, anyone can participate on the Technical Steering Committee by
contributing to the technical community and becoming a maintainer of a
sub-project.

The responsibilities of the Diamond Bluff Technical Steering Committee are
as follows:

* Coordinating the technical direction of the Diamond Bluff Project
* In coordination with the Board of Directors, approving new sub-projects for
  creation under the Diamond Bluff organization.
* Helping to identify maintainers of sub-projects, and ensure they have the
  technical support necessary to be successful in their role as a maintainer.
* Communicating with external and industry organizations concering Diamond
  Bluff technical matters.
* Appointing represenatives to work with other open source or open standards
  communities.
* Voting on technical matters relating to the code base of all sub-projects.

> 

Reviewer 2: Add section:

## Code of Conduct Committee

The Board will appoint or elect three or more individuals to serve as a Code Of Conduct Committee (COCC).  Committee members may also be members of the Board or the TSC, or they may be outside parties (paid or unpaid) with expertise in code of conduct (CoC) enforcement, or just members of the community.  The CoCC should be selected to represent the diversity of the community.

The CoCC will establish fair and standard processes for handling reports of violations of the CoC, as well as a system of remedies, in order to protect the well-being of the project.  The CoCC will recommend the appropriate resolution to the Board, up to and including the removal of any individual from participation, either temporarily or permanently.  Should a member of the CoCC itself be accused of a violation, that accusation will be handled by an individual appointed by the foundation.

> ## Voting

Reviewer 2: Should this voting section refer to the TSC as well as the Board?

While is the goal of the project to strive for consensus as a community, if any
decision requires a vote to move forward, the Board of Directors members shall
be entitled to vote on a one vote per representative basis.
Decisions by vote shall be based on a majority vote only when sixty percent
(>= 60$) or greater of the Board of Directors representatives are either
present or particiapting electronically. In the event of a tied vote, the Chair

> shall be entitiled to submit a tie-breaking vote

Reviewer 2: Add para:

All elections shall be held using an online preference election mechanism to be selected and approved by the Board.

# Diamond Bluff

For an idea of what the goals of the Diamond Bluff project are, please see the
[high level overview document](README.md).

## Governance

### Governance Goals

The goal of governance for the Diamond Bluff project is to maintain and
emphasize a technical meritocracy of contributors. Those who contribute the
most and the best technical solutions, while supporting all contirbutors, have
the most influence in the technical direction of the project. At the same
time, a [Board of Directors](#Board of Directors) is established with it's
own set of responsibilities, to help manage the Diamond Bluff project.

## Membership

> The Diamond Bluff project is composed of Platinum, Silver, and Participating

Reviewer: What about individuals? those who are not aligned with a company, nor with an academic institution. I'm not sure he will continue work with Diamond bluff, but Dave Schmitt is a prime example. He just retired from F5, but may want to be involved.

Academic members. All Platinum and Silver members must be current corporate
members of the hosting foundation (e.g. Linux Foundation or Open Infrastructure
Foundation) at any level to participate in the Diamond Bluff project.

> Platinum, Silver and Participating Academic Members shal be entitled to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Platinum, Silver, Individual, and Participating Academic Members shall be entitled to:
```

* Participate in the Diamond Bluff Project memtings, initiatives, events and
  any other activities.

> * Identify their company as a member or participant in the Diamond Bluff

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Identify their company or academic institution as a member or participant in the Diamond Bluff
```

  project.
* Platinum members shall be entitled to appoint a representative to the
  Board of Directors of the Diamond Bluff project, as well as any future
  committees established by the Board of Directors.

## Structure

At a high level, the Diamond Bluff project is governed by two main bodies which
work together to achieve the project's goals:

* A Board of Directors
* A Technical Steering Committee

### Board of Directors

The Diamond Bluff project Board of Directors shall be composed as follows:

* One representative from each Platinum member.
* One Silver member representative elected annually by the Silver members for
  every 5 Silver members, with at least one representative, and no more than 3.

The Board of Directors shall have the following responsibilities:

* Approve a budget directing the use of funds raised from all sources of
  revenue.
* Elect a Chair of the Diamond Bluff project to preside over meetings,

>   authorize expenditures approved by the budget and manage any day-to-day

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  authorize expenditures approved by the budget, manage any day-to-day
```

  operations, and vote on decisions or matters before the Board of Directors.

The Board of Directors shall::

* Demonstrate plans and the means to coordinate with the open source project’s
  developer community, including on topics such as branding, logos, and other
  collateral that will represent the community.
* Engage in a professional manner consistent with maintaining a cohesive

>   community, while also maintaining the goodwill and esteem of the foundation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  community, while also maintaining the goodwill and esteem of the 
```

  the Diamond Bluff Project is a member of, in the open source software
  community.
* Respect the rights of all trademark owners, including any branding and usage
  guidelines.

> * Engage the foundation the project is a member of for all press and analyst

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Engage the project's foundation for all press and analyst
```

  relations activities.
* Upon request, provide information regarding project participation, including
  information regarding attendance at project-sponsored events, to the

>   foundation the project is a member of.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 project's foundation.
```

> * Engage foundation the project is a member of for any websites directly for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Engage the project's foundation for any Diamond Bluff project related websites.
```

>   the Diamond Buff Project; and operate under such rules and procedures as may

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and operate under such rules and procedures as may
```

  from time to time be approved by the Diamond Bluff Board of Directors and

>   confirmed by foundation the project is a part of.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  confirmed by the Project's foundation.
```

### Technical Steering Committee

The Diamond Bluff Technical Steering Committee shall be composed as follows:

> * One appointed representative from each Platinum member

Reviewer 2: So by this formulation, the majority of the members of the TOC would also be direct appointees, rather than representing the projects.  This makes the TOC not at all differentiated from the Board.  We need a structure that makes sure that we get a different group of people for the TOC; let me see if I can add some text to make that happen.

Author: Excellent and yes, I want the Technical Steering Committee (TSC) to be a bit more technical and less appointed, I can put some text to change that if you can't push to this PR.

Reviewer 2: What's the largest number of projects we expect to have under DB?

Author: That's hard to predict, but this governance document is trying to take a first crack at how those might be formed and guided by the Technical Steering Committee. I can see 3 initial projects: A DPU/IPU infra project (think base OS and packaging), IPDK (table driver interface abstractions), and testing.

Reviewer: I thought that we were going to adopt something along the lines of an appointed TSC member from each platinum member to start with, and have 1/3 rotate off each of the first 3 years, to make way for TSC members to be nominated and voted in on technical contribution merit. that way we have a TSC to begin with that will have some consistency over the beginning years, but end up with those of great technical merit in the end.

Reviewer: I do not have a problem adding a maintainer from each subproject either.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, that's what I recall too.

Author: The latest version is updated to reflect this discussion.

* A maintainer from each Diamond Bluff sub-project

In addition, anyone can particiapte on the Technical Steering Committee by
contributing to the technical community and becoming a maintainer of a
sub-project.

The responsibilities of the Diamond Bluff Technical Steering Committee are
as follows:

* Coordinating the technical direction of the Diamond Bluff Project

> * In coordination with the Board of Directors, pproving new sub-projects for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In coordination with the Board of Directors, approving new sub-projects for
```

  creation under the Diamond Bluff organization.
* Helping to identify maintainers of sub-projects, and ensure they have the
  technical support necessary to be successful in their role as a maintainer.
* Communicating with external and industry organizations concering Diamond
  Bluff technical matters.
* Appointing represenatives to work with other open source or open standards
  communities.
* Voting on technical matters relating to the code base of all sub-projects.

## Voting

While is the goal of the project to strive for consensus as a community, if any
decision requires a vote to move forward, the Board of Directors members shall
be entitled to vote on a one vote per representative basis.

> Decisions by vote shall be based on a majority vote only when sixty percent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Decisions by vote shall be based on a majority vote only when sixty percent or greater
```

> (60$) of the Board of Directors representatives are either present or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(>= 60%) of the Board of Directors representatives are either present or
```

particiapting electronically. In the event of a tied vote, the Chair shall be
entitiled to submit a tie-breaking vote

## Budget

The Board of Directors shall approve an annual budget and never commit to spend

> in excess of funds raised. The budget shall be consisten with the non-profit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in excess of funds raised. The budget shall be consistent with the non-profit
```

> mission of the foundation Diamond Bluff is a part of. The foundation shall

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mission of the Diamond Bluff project's foundation. The foundation shall
```

> provide regular reports of spend levels against the budget.

Reviewer: can we commit the foundation to provide those reports?

## Amendments
This governiing document may be amended by a super majority vote of all Board
of Director members, subject to approval by foundation the project is a part

> of. A super majority vote is defined as a vote in favor by 70% of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of. A super majority vote is defined as a vote in favor by 70% or greater of the
```

one or more parties as appropriate and necessary, under terms set by the Board.

### Technical Steering Committee

Members of the Diamond Bluff Technical Steering Committee (TSC) decide
technical matters that affect the entire project, administer joint
project-wide technical resources, and act as a final arbiter of technical
matters that are not decided inside individual subprojects.

#### TSC Membership

All TSC members must be currently contributing engineers, documentation
writers, test platform adminstrators, specification editors, or other direct
technical contributors to one or more subprojects. TSC members need not be
employees of sponsoring organizations.

During the first year of of the project, The TSC shall be composed as follows:

* One appointed representative from each Platinum member
* One maintainer from each Diamond Bluff sub-project, selected by the Board

Starting one year after the launch of the Diamond Bluff governance, the TSC
composition will become:

* Two maintainers from each Diamond Bluff sub-project
* Two technical contributors appointed by the Board

Membership in the TSC will gradually transition to a model of elected

> subproject technical leadership, starting in the second year of the project.

Author: Will update throughout the doc to be consistently `sub-project`.
